JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Congress battles
with the president over budget
priorities
in the face of a government
shutdown, as he
demands funding for a wall on
Mexico's border.
Then: We travel to West
Virginia, where a
declining coal industry is
leaving retired
miners,many sick from working in
the mines,
in danger of losing their much
needed health
care.
DAMON TUCKER, Former Coal Miner:
And it's
not like we're asking for a
handout or anything
either.
It was hard sweat work that --
benefits that
we negotiated.
And all we want is just what was
promised
to us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also ahead:
Outsider candidates
sweep the French election -- a
look at the
final two presidential hopefuls
who could
lead France.
And Facebook's Sheryl Sandberg
speaks candidly
about recovering from the tragic
death of
her husband and building
strength through
grief.
SHERYL SANDBERG, COO, Facebook:
And I learned
that resilience, it's not
something we have
one set amount of.
It's a muscle, and we build it.
And if this helps anyone even
just a little
bit, themselves or a friend,
then I think
I will have found some meaning
in this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The countdown is
on to a possible
government shutdown on Saturday,
President
Trump's 100th day in office.
Congress began returning to work
today facing
a presidential demand for
funding a wall on
the Mexico border.
The White House and Democrats
argued today
over putting a down payment in
the continuing
resolution, or C.R.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
Obviously the money for military
and our border
security and wall have been part
of that request.
And that's something that --
those are the
president's priorities heading
in -- with
respect to the C.R. and keeping
the government
open.
I think we feel very confident
where we're
headed.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: If
administration insists on
funding for a wall
in this bill, it will endanger
the prospects
of bill passing and raise the
prospects of
a government shutdown, because a
border wall
we believe is a pointless waste
of taxpayer
money.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Some Republicans
oppose money
for the wall as well.
Democrats do want continued
federal payments
to make sure that the poor can
afford health
coverage, but Republicans may
oppose that.
President Trump called in
members of the U.N.
Security Council today, and
warned them that
the situation in North Korea is
unacceptable.
The president met with the U.N.
ambassadors
over lunch at the White House.
He said they may need to take
firm action.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
The council must be prepared to
impose additional
and stronger sanctions on North
Korean nuclear
and ballistic missile programs.
This is a real threat to the
world, whether
we want to talk about it or not.
North Korea is a big world
problem, and it's
a problem we have to finally
solve.
People have put blindfolds on
for decades.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The president
complained that
the U.N. has not been resolving
conflicts,
but he said -- quote -- "I think
that's going
to start happening now."
Former President Barack Obama
has reemerged
urging compassion in dealing
with illegal
immigration.
He spoke today at the University
of Chicago,
his first public appearance
since leaving
office.
Without mentioning President
Trump by name,
Mr. Obama called for greater
understanding
and a little historical
perspective.
BARACK OBAMA, Former President
of the United
States: It's not like everybody
in Ellis Island
had all their papers straight.
The truth is, the history of our
immigration
system has always been a little
bit haphazard,
a little bit loose.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The former
president said he
will also focus on issues like
gerrymandering
and money in politics.
Workers in New Orleans today
removed a statue
honoring an uprising by whites
after the Civil
War.
The operation was carried out in
the wee hours,
but still sparked a protest.
The obelisk statue had been on
display, at
different sites, since 1891.
Three monuments to Confederate
leaders will
be removed in the coming days.
The Senate has confirmed former
Georgia Governor
Sonny Perdue to be secretary of
agriculture.
His nomination had been held up
for weeks
over ethics questions.
The Trump nominees for trade
representative
and labor secretary are still
awaiting confirmation.
Wall Street rallied today, amid
hopes that
a centrist will win the French
presidential
election.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 216
points to close near 20764.
The Nasdaq rose 73, and the S&P
500 added
25.
And astronaut Peggy Whitson has
now broken
the American record for the most
accumulated
time in space.
As of today, she's spent more
than 534 days
in orbit.
President Trump, with daughter
Ivanka and
astronaut Kate Rubins,
congratulated Whitson
in a video call to the
International Space
Station.
She's in command there, and
spoke alongside
fellow crew member Jack Fischer.
DONALD TRUMP: This is a very
special day in
the glorious history of American
spaceflight.
PEGGY WHITSON, NASA Astronaut:
It's actually
a huge honor to break a record
like this,
but it's an honor for me
basically to be representing
all the folks at NASA who make
this spaceflight
possible and who make me setting
this record
feasible.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wow.
Congratulations.
And when Whitson returns to
Earth this September,
she will have spent a total of
666 days in
space.
The world record is 879 days.
That's held by a Russian.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
broken promises?
-- coal miners in danger of
losing their benefits;
insurance companies pushing
Congress to make
decisions on the nation's health
care; anti-establishment
candidates go head-to-head in
France's presidential
election run-off; and much more.
With Congress back in session,
members face
an end-of-the-week deadline to
keep the government
funded.
To dig a little deeper into the
shutdown showdown,
we are joined by our
correspondents who cover
Capitol Hill and the White
House, Lisa Desjardins
and John Yang respectively.
And thank you both for being
here in the studio
to talk about this complicated
stuff that's
going on.
Lisa, let me start with you.
What are the major sticking
points here when
it comes to this showdown talk?
LISA DESJARDINS: There are a
few.
At the top of the list is the
border wall.
The White House says it
absolutely wants funding
for that border wall.
Democrats in Congress say they
will not support
it.
You need at least eight
Democrats to pass
a funding bill.
All the Democrats say that they
are against
this.
And also Republicans have a
problem with the
border wall.
Judy, there are at least three
border state
Republicans who say they're
skeptical about
it.
There's other sticking points,
too, including
miners' benefits.
That's something Democrats they
are willing
to fight for as well, even if it
means a delay
in funding.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, John, you
have obviously
been talking to folks at the
White House.
What are they looking for?
What are they worried about?
And do they think they can turn
this at attitude
in Congress around?
JOHN YANG: Well, they're
confident the showdown
is not going to happen.
They certainly don't want it to
happen on
their 100th day in office.
Now, that undercuts their
leverage a little
bit.
And you will notice that they
have been very
careful about not drawing any
lines in the
sand.
President Trump on Twitter talks
about funding
for the border wall, but when
you talk to
administration officials, they
refer to it
as border security and suggest
that it could
come in the form of more
Immigration Customs
Enforcement officers, could be
more drones.
It could be anything along the
border that
would give them the ability to
say that this
bill reflects their priorities.
The president also has been very
careful not
to say that he wouldn't sign a
bill that doesn't
include border -- money for the
border wall.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Lisa, if the
White House
is willing to redefine the wall,
turn it into
something called border security
along the
lines of what John described,
are Democrats
and those Republicans opposed
prepared to
give?
LISA DESJARDINS: They say
they're considering
it.
Democrats say they made an offer
to Republican
leaders yesterday and that they
haven't gotten
an offer back.
But this is all common.
There's going to be a lot of
back and forth
over the next few days.
They're open to that.
I think we need to watch this
miners' benefit
fight.
That's something that came up
four months
ago, the last time we had one of
these funding
cliffs, and Democrats said at
that time they
wanted a permanent extension of
these health
care benefits or else they would
delay or
stop funding.
And we don't have a solution on
that either.
These are all things in the mix
together.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And -- John.
JOHN YANG: We should also point
out the White
House is also being careful to
say that they
are willing to fund Democratic
priorities
that they don't like, so that
they're willing
to see some give and take on
this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And John, just
quickly, you
were saying a minute ago the
White House has
essentially given up some
leverage here by
saying at the outset that they
don't want
a shutdown.
JOHN YANG: It would be bad
optics.
The president says this 100-day
mark is arbitrary.
He calls it ridiculous.
But, at the same time, it would
look really
bad if this happened on the
100th day.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, this is an
ambitious White
House we're hearing from right
now, John.
They are talking about wanting
what we have
just been discussing from the
budget, but
they're also talking about tax
reform this
week.
What are they looking for there?
JOHN YANG: I don't think you are
going to
see a lot of details.
It's funny.
The president this, that he
would announce
his tax reform plan on this
Wednesday just
about -- maybe just minutes
after Treasury
Secretary Mnuchin said it wasn't
going to
come for quite a while.
I don't think you're going to
see a lot of
details on Wednesday.
Secretary Mnuchin, the National
Economic Council
chairman, Gary Cohn, are going
to the Hill
tomorrow to talk to Speaker
Ryan, Leader McConnell,
the leaders of the tax-writing
committees.
On Wednesday, the most you could
see is, I
think, probably guidelines,
broad principles,
middle-class tax cut,
simplification of the
tax code, making business rates
competitive,
which means cutting them, but
probably not
much more than that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Lisa, what
are folks on
the Hill saying about this?
LISA DESJARDINS: I was standing
next to Finance
Chairman Orrin Hatch, who has
been talking
to the White House about tax
reform for a
long time.
And he actually received a call
from the White
House when I was standing there.
He said he hasn't been briefed
on this plan
yet, on what they're going to
say tomorrow.
But he says what John is
reporting.
It will be vague.
We asked, there's reports about
a 15 percent
corporate tax rate, that the
president wants
to make that drastic cut.
To that, Hatch said, "I don't
think he will
get away with that."
Essentially, that would be too
much of a budget
buster.
So, that's kind of already from
a Trump supporter
a problem for him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is somebody
they'd normally
be counting on.
So, just quickly, less than a
minute, you
mentioned health care a minute
ago, John,
that the White House is ready to
deal on that.
Where are they in coming up with
a new health
care reform plan?
JOHN YANG: They think that their
contribution
has been to get the conservative
Republicans
and the moderate Republicans
talking to each
other.
They say the vote is up to the
Hill, up to
the speaker, the majority leader
and the whip
once they have the votes.
They would love for it to happen
before the
100 days is up, but they also
realize that
keeping the government opening
and running
takes precedence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you hear?
LISA DESJARDINS: Judy, I woke to
a wide spectrum
of offices on Capitol Hill.
They're not there yet.
Maybe tomorrow night.
The Freedom Caucus has an
important meeting.
They say there's a little bit of
optimism
among Republicans.
But this whole year, Judy, they
have been
big on aspiration, short on
votes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right.
Well, I know both of you are
going to be following
it all this week, Lisa
Desjardins, John Yang.
But, Lisa, stay with us, because
you mentioned
this West Virginia coal miners
issue several
times.
And you have actually done
reporting.
You have been to West Virginia.
Tell us more.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
We just got back from West
Virginia over the
weekend.
And President Trump, as you
know, has campaigned
on a promise to reverse the
fortunes of coal
country.
That message especially
resonated in West
Virginia, where he swept every
single county
in last year's elections.
But now thousands of miners are
in jeopardy
of losing their health care if
Congress doesn't
act.
This is another installment in
our ongoing
Chasing the Dream series on
poverty and opportunity
in America.
Many stories about mining start
here, a coal
yard in Appalachia.
But this story starts here in a
front yard.
After 27 years underground,
former miner Damon
Tucker left with a list of
health problems
and frustrations.
DAMON TUCKER, Former Coal Miner:
I told my
wife.
I said, I will flip hamburgers.
I will draw my pension and flip
hamburgers
if I have to.
I'm not -- I'm coming out of the
mines.
LISA DESJARDINS: Flipping
hamburgers didn't
happen.
Lawn care did with his own
one-man business
near Beckley, West Virginia.
But Tucker, who had open heart
surgery just
over a year ago, still depends
on his miners
health plan.
So what would it mean if your
health care
benefits just stopped?
DAMON TUCKER: Well, you know, I
will take
what medicine I can afford to
pay right now,
but my follow-up visits with
doctors and stuff,
I won't -- I won't go.
I -- you know, I won't be able
to afford to
go.
LISA DESJARDINS: Some 22,000
retired union
miners and their widows will
lose their health
care if Congress doesn't act.
Many have chronic lung diseases.
Their union benefit health plan
supports clinics
like this in Southern West
Virginia and helps
them pay their medical costs.
WOMAN: Take a deep breath in.
LISA DESJARDINS: These retired
miners say
the federal government
guaranteed this health
care at a key moment 70 years
ago, 1946.
After a massive miner strike
threatened the
power grid, President Truman did
something
historic: He stepped in to forge
a deal where
coal companies and the mining
union agreed
to fund lifelong health care and
pensions.
MAN: I blame the government more
than I do
the coal companies.
LISA DESJARDINS: That
last-century promise
is colliding with today's
funding problem
and critical health needs at a
meeting of
the Fayette County Black Lung
Association.
MAN: They want to send me to a
lung doctor
the 1st of next month.
Well, if they don't pass that
bill, then the
1st of the next month, I won't
have no insurance.
MAN: I would like to say my
breathing and
everything's getting better, but
it's not.
It's getting worse.
MAN: It'll take us going back to
Washington,
and protesting, and letting them
know how
we feel.
We need to let the government
know: Hey, you
all promised that.
We supposed to get that.
LISA DESJARDINS: How did this
happen?
As the coal industry declined,
there were
fewer miners paying into the
system, and more
miners retiring and drawing on
their benefits.
Starting in the 1990s, coal
companies used
bankruptcy filings as a way to
stop paying
their portion of the benefits.
All that led to shortfalls, and
while government
never intended to pay for these
benefits,
Congress has become a kind of
funder of last
resort, and has stepped in
multiple times
to make up the difference.
And that brings us to today.
Miners' fates are yet again in
the hands of
Washington politicians.
But, notably, this time, miners'
health benefits
run out as another deadline
hits, the deadline
to fund most of government.
SEN.
JOE MANCHIN (D), West Virginia:
How many in
here are depending on this
health care we're
talking about?
LISA DESJARDINS: West Virginia
Democratic
Senator Joe Manchin, drawing
packed rooms
of miners at Southern West
Virginia Community
College, wants to solve their
health care
issue permanently by leveraging
the overlapping
crises.
He doesn't use the word
shutdown, but his
moves could lead to one.
He says he and other Democrats
could block
or delay government funding this
week.
Is the only way that you could
support the
next funding bill if it contains
a permanent
fix for these health care
benefits?
SEN.
JOE MANCHIN: As of I'm speaking
of you right
now, absolutely.
It's what I'm fighting for, and
it's what's
basically the only right thing
to do.
LISA DESJARDINS: But West
Virginia Republican
Congressman David McKinley says,
for now,
he's OK with less, a
20-month-or-so patch
that would mean another fix
needed after the
2018 election.
REP.
DAVID MCKINLEY (R), West
Virginia: Look, I
would embrace what he's talking
about over
on the Senate side, but you
don't shut government
down over this.
Let's be reasonable about it,
and not give
false hope.
LISA DESJARDINS: Another
potential divide,
McKinley is considering running
against Manchin
for Senate next year.
Still others look at coal
country, despite
Truman's involvement, and say
it's time Congress
to stop funding these benefits.
RACHEL GRESZLER, Heritage
Foundation: That
promise came from their
employees and the
union.
It didn't come from the
government.
LISA DESJARDINS: Rachel Greszler
from the
conservative Heritage Foundation
points out
miners are far from the only
group facing
benefit problems.
RACHEL GRESZLER: If the
government steps in
now and says, just because you
performed a
very valuable service, and coal
mining is
crucial to our country, we're
going to bail
you out, what does that say to
any other worker
who sees their job as very
valuable, and yet
their union and their employers
can't make
good on the promises they
provided?
KATHY VANCE, Widow: It doesn't
even look like
he had started to develop black
lung at that
point.
LISA DESJARDINS: But Kathy
Vance, whose husband,
Larry, died of complications
from black lung,
says miners are different
because the federal
government was involved in their
benefits
from the beginning.
She's a cancer survivor herself
and her widow's
benefits help with doctors
visits and medicine.
KATHY VANCE: It's just, you
know, a constant
worry of, are we going to have
health benefits
or not?
He would be very angry, because,
you know,
he -- he supported the union
wholeheartedly.
LISA DESJARDINS: This crisis
over miners benefits
comes under one of the most
pro-coal-sounding
presidents in decades.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
And in other countries, they
love their coal.
Over here, we haven't treated it
with the
respect it deserves.
LISA DESJARDINS: But President
Trump has been
publicly silent on miners
benefits.
And Manchin wants more.
SEN.
JOE MANCHIN: I'm very appreciate
President
Trump's willingness to want to
help the coal
miners.
We just need him now to step
forward.
LISA DESJARDINS: Back outside
Beckley, Damon
Tucker knows many in his
situation, including
fellow church leader and in-law
Rickie Coalson,
who has black lung.
Both rely on their miners
benefits.
DAMON TUCKER: And it's not like
we're asking
for a handout or anything
either.
It was hard sweat work that --
benefits that
we negotiated.
And all we want is just what was
promised
to us.
RICKIE COALSON, Retired Coal
Miner: Coal miners
are proud people.
They're not going to beg.
Just want to be treated fair.
My father was a coal miner, and
his father
was a coal miner.
So, it's kind of like a
tradition, too.
And I knew -- well, I thought,
when I did
retire, I would have good
benefits.
LISA DESJARDINS: However
Congress acts, and
even if President Trump's coal
boom materializes
in coal country, this family's
mining tradition
and frustrations ends with them.
Both men advised their children
not to become
coal miners.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins
in Josephine, West Virginia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As we have been
hearing, the
debate over health care coverage
is tied to
the larger political battle.
Specifically, the president must
decide whether
he will continue to make
payments to insurance
companies to cover out-of-pocket
costs and
deductibles for low-income
consumers.
The Obama administration lost a
crucial court
ruling that concluded those
payments were
not constitutional unless
authorized by Congress.
Seven million people, more than
half of those
covered through the insurance
exchanges, qualify
for these subsidies.
Robert Laszewski is a consultant
who works
with health insurers and other
industry leaders.
He watches this issue closely.
Robert Laszewski, thank you for
being back
with us.
ROBERT LASZEWSKI, President,
Health Care Policy
and Marketplace Review: You're
welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, remind us,
325 million
Americans, only seven million of
them receive
these subsidies.
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why does this
matter so much?
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: Well, first of
all, there
are 20 million people in the
individual health
insurance market, so it does
affect 20 million
people.
And the subsidies, the Trump
administration
can cut them off tomorrow
morning.
To the typical insurance
company, that could
be worth about $8 million a
month they'd lose,
because they still have to
provide the benefits.
So what the insurance company
does, if this
gets cut off overnight, is that
they will
have to increase the rates not
just for the
seven million in the exchange,
but the 20
million in the individual health
insurance
market.
And that could easily lead to 15
percent rate
increases on top of significant
rate increases
that are likely to come in 2018
for Obamacare.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's try to
humanize this.
Who exactly are the people who
benefit from
this?
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: The poorest
people who get
health insurance through the
Affordable Care
Act, or Obamacare's insurance
exchanges, these
are people that as an individual
can make
$12,000 a year to $24,000 a
year.
They are people who are such
low-income that
they need help with the
deductibles and the
co-pays.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And how much
money are we talking
about is involved?
I have seen $130-some-billion.
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: Yes, it's
about $1,000 per
person.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A year?
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: So, it's a
huge amount of
money for that individual.
It's a huge amount of money to
the insurance
company that is providing it,
because the
insurance company, by law, has
to provide
the money even if the federal
government doesn't
pay for it.
So they get hit to the tune of
maybe $8 million
a month for every 100,000 people
they cover.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, right now,
President Trump
appears to be dangling this
as...
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You could call it
a bargaining
chip in his negotiations over
the budget with
the Congress.
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What would happen
if this money
just stops flowing?
What happens?
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: The first
thing that happens
is people's benefits continue to
flow to them.
The cost-sharing would continue
to at least
the end of the year, because the
insurance
company has to provide the
support.
So, the money would come out of
the insurance
company's pocket.
The insurance company would then
turn around
and increase rates for 2018,
probably about
15 percent just for this, in
addition to probably
15 percent rate increases
typically that Obamacare
would get in 2018 anyway.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what happens
to these exchanges
at the national -- the federal
exchange and
the state exchanges?
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: Well, health
insurance companies
have generally been losing a lot
of money
in the health insurance
exchanges.
This would make things far
worse.
So, you have already got a
teetering, relatively
unstable situation going on now.
The fundamental problem with
Obamacare is,
we haven't gotten enough healthy
people to
sign up to pay the claims for
the sick.
It's an imbalanced pool.
So the Trump administration
would throw a
grenade into the middle of that
and make it
even more unbalanced.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, the
exchanges, some of
them could collapse?
That's what...
(CROSSTALK)
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: I doubt you
would see the
exchanges collapse.
We get the into the weeds of how
all this
works, but the bottom line is,
the insurance
companies would dramatically
increase the
rates for all 20 million in the
pool.
It would make things even more
expensive.
We would have even fewer healthy
people, and
which would, in turn, make
things even more
expensive next year.
It continues to make things
unstable.
Right now, Judy, typically, a
family of four,
mom and dad age 40, right now,
would have
to pay about $10,000 in premium
for a plan
with a $7,000 deductible.
That's the cheapest plan for
people who don't
get subsidies.
And half the people don't get
subsidies.
So, what this would is, it would
just tend
-- it would make this far worse.
Obamacare is not stable, in the
sense that
it's not delivering efficient
health insurance
costs, and it would make that
even worse.
That's what it would do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Who is arguing to
the White
House to keep these payments
going, and who's
arguing -- trying to stop them?
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: I don't know
of anybody
who is arguing that the
administration should
stop them.
My sense is, not only do
Democrats -- are
they dead set against stopping
them, but the
Republican leadership, members
of the Republican
Congress privately are saying:
We can't do
this.
Why would we make an unstable
situation even
much worse?
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
this playing
out?
When do you see this -- we know
the president
is saying it could happen now,
but what are
you seeing in the terms of the
timeline?
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: Well, the
president has
dangled this twice now.
Once, he has said to the
Democrats, you need
to come to the table and
negotiate repeal
and replace bill with me, if you
don't, I
will stop the subsidies.
That was last week.
This week, he said, in order to
get the budget
done, I need the wall -- I need
the Mexican
wall money, and I will give you
the subsidies
if you give me the Mexican wall
money.
He's now spent the subsidies
twice, from a
political perspective.
So this is all about resolving
the budget
impasse and all about resolving
the repeal
and replace challenge that the
Republicans
are dealing with.
And until that's -- those two
things are resolved,
this is going to be an issue
that people are
going to be worrying about.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's a tough one.
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: Yes, it is.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Robert Laszewski,
we thank
you very much.
ROBERT LASZEWSKI: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": a
deadly Taliban
strike shakes Afghanistan's
Defense Ministry;
Politics Monday, including a
look at former
President Obama's first public
appearance
since leaving office; and option
B -- Facebook's
Sheryl Sandberg opens up about
her struggle
after her husband's death.
But first: Voters went to the
polls yesterday
in France, the first of two
rounds to elect
a new president.
The field was winnowed to two
candidates,
neither from the establishment
political parties
that have governed France for
decades.
It sets up a May 7 tete-a-tete
run-off between
a centrist newcomer and the face
of the far
right.
From Paris, special
correspondent Malcolm
Brabant reports.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The two
candidates still
standing emerged this morning to
crowds of
supporters, centrist Emmanuel
Macron and Marine
Le Pen, leader of the far-right
National Front.
She fired the first broadside in
the northern
town of Rouvroy.
MARINE LE PEN, President,
National Front Party
(through translator): The
reality is that
Mr. Macron is not a patriot in
any way at
all.
He is a hysterical, radical
Europeanist.
He is for total open borders.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Sunday's
opening round saw
a 78 percent turnout.
Macron won 24 percent of the
vote.
Le Pen followed with 21 percent,
while conservative
Francois Fillon finished with 20
percent.
And far-left candidate Jean-Luc
Melenchon
had 19.
This was the scene last night in
Paris as
news of Macron's first-place
finish reached
his supporters.
And this was the countdown to
the final round
in Le Pen's headquarters in the
Northern French
rust belt town of
Henin-Beaumont.
National Front supporters had
been expecting
her to take first place, and hid
their disappointment,
chanting, "We will win."
WOMAN (through translator): It's
the mobilization
of the people.
She's been fighting for the same
cause for
years, defending the people.
Marine will be president.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Several times,
the Front
supporters burst into "The
Marseillaise,"
the French national anthem.
Campaign staffer Mikael Sala
resents accusations
that the party is racist and
insists that
Le Pen can be president for
French people
of all ethnicities.
MIKAEL SALA, Le Pen Adviser:
Wherever you
come from, she's said a zillion
times that
she considers every French
woman, every French
man as being equal.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But political
analyst Alexandra
de Hoop Scheffer believes that
Le Pen has
progressed as far as she can go.
ALEXANDRA DE HOOP SCHEFFER,
Political Analyst:
people realize that in the
Brexit, post-Trump
election context, probably, they
won't want
to follow that trend.
And Macron has a smart way of
portraying his
mission, which is to show that
France is a
contrarian.
MALCOLM BRABANT: She supports
the popular
thesis that Macron will probably
win the second
round with about 60 percent of
the vote.
Marine Le Pen's success may have
ended decades
of political domination by the
traditional
parties of the left and right.
But France's political
establishment is in
a vengeful mood.
The leadership of both the
Republican and
the Socialist parties have
described her candidacy
as destructive and have
encouraged their supporters
to vote for Emmanuel Macron.
Sitting President Francois
Hollande, whose
Socialist Party had a disastrous
showing,
was one of those voices.
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE, French
President (through
translator): There is a clear
choice.
Emmanuel Macron is the candidate
who enables
the French people to come
together at this
moment, which is so unusual, so
serious.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Meanwhile,
European financial
markets surged with the news
that Macron,
who opposes withdrawal from the
European Union,
had come out on top.
Still, the vice president of Le
Pen's party,
Steeve Briois, is convinced that
Le Pen will
pick up working-class support
from the hard-left
candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon.
STEEVE BRIOIS, National Front
Party (through
translator): A lot of
Melenchon's voters who
voted for him because of anger
will be able
to vote for us in 15 days,
because they won't
vote for an ultra-liberal, such
as Mr. Macron.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But Jean-Yves
Camus, a specialist
in right-wing politics, believes
that's an
illusion.
JEAN-YVES CAMUS, Political
Analyst: There's
no way she can be elected,
unless, of course,
of a huge political earthquake
or something
really nasty such as a terrorist
attack.
MALCOLM BRABANT: These National
Front supporters
were partying as if the ultimate
prize was
a foregone conclusion.
But most people headed home
early, as reality
sank in that they have a major
battle on their
hands if they're to emulate the
victories
of Brexit and Donald Trump.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in France.
JUDY WOODRUFF: More than a
decade- and-a-half
into the U.S. war in
Afghanistan, the country
remains wracked by instability.
On Friday, the Taliban reminded
the world
that it remains a force to be
reckoned with.
Two of the top national security
officials
in the Trump administration have
just visited
the country.
William Brangham reports.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The defense
secretary's
surprise visit to Kabul
underscored growing
U.S. concerns about Afghanistan.
Secretary Mattis made that clear
after meeting
with President Ashraf Ghani and
other leaders.
JAMES MATTIS, U.S. Secretary of
Defense: 2017
is going to be another tough
year for the
valiant Afghan Security Forces
and the international
troops who have stood and will
continue to
stand shoulder to shoulder with
Afghanistan
against terrorism.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Just three
days before,
Taliban fighters, disguised as
government
troops, killed at least 140
Afghan soldiers.
Officials believe the final
death toll will
be higher, making this the
single deadliest
attack on an Afghan base in
years.
It happened at a compound in
northern Balkh
province.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Also today, at
least four
security guards were killed when
a suicide
bomber hit a U.S.-operated base
in the east
of the country, all this amid
reports that
Russia is funneling weapons to
the Taliban,
something the top U.S. commander
in Afghanistan
essentially confirmed.
GEN.
JOHN NICHOLSON, Commander U.S.
Forces, Afghanistan:
We had the overt legitimacy lent
to the Taliban
by the Russian that really
occurred during
late last year beginning through
this process
they have been undertaking.
QUESTION: So, to be clear, you
are not refuting
that they are sending weapons?
GEN.
JOHN NICHOLSON: Oh, no, I am not
refuting
that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Russia has
denied aiding
the insurgents.
But it lends urgency to the U.S.
decision
whether to deploy more American
troops in
a war that's now in its 16th
year.
For more on the situation in
Afghanistan,
we turn to David Sedney, who was
deputy assistant
secretary of defense for
Afghanistan, Pakistan
and Central Asia during the
Obama administration.
He's now acting president of the
American
University of Afghanistan, and
joins us via
Skype from Kabul.
David Sedney, thank you very
much for being
here.
Can we -- let's talk first about
this attack
on Friday.
The Afghan forces have already
lost thousands
of soldiers to the Taliban over
the last few
years.
How significant is Friday's
attack?
DAVID SEDNEY, Former Defense
Department Official:
I would have to say that this is
a very significant
attack.
It is probably the largest
attack the Taliban
have ever carried out on Afghan
forces.
It was done with a kind of
sophistication
and planning that I think even
surprised many
people here.
And it shows the Taliban have a
reach and
a capability that is something
that people
just didn't expect.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As you say,
this attack
shows, I don't know if you want
to call it
the audacity, but the audacity
of the Taliban.
But it is also, is it not,
something of an
indictment of the Afghan forces
to have allowed
the infiltrators who helped
perpetuate this
attack and to allow themselves
to be caught
off-guard like this?
DAVID SEDNEY: Well, I think
certainly shows
a failure of intelligence.
It shows that there needs to be
improved leadership
on the Afghan forces.
But I have to say that the
Afghan forces have
fought bravely and well in
repeated engagements
with the Taliban over the last
several years,
after, to be frank, the Obama
administration
made a too hasty and poorly
planned withdrawal,
leaving the Afghan forces
without the kind
of support and the kind of
leadership that
they needed.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Obviously, we
need as robust
an Afghan fighting force as we
can to counter
the Taliban.
Do you think this kind of an
attack will hurt
recruitment going forward?
DAVID SEDNEY: I don't think it
will hurt recruitment.
In fact, the experience that I
have seen here
is, after attack, recruitment
tends to go
up.
But the real issue here is not
recruitment.
The real issue here is
leadership, leadership
and mentoring.
The Afghan forces have a real
large number
of very capable junior and
middle-level officers
that the United States and our
allies have
played a major role in training.
But the upper levels of
leadership is an area
where we have not given the kind
of sustained
attention over the last decade
or so.
And that's where the real
problems lie.
And that's why, as you mentioned
earlier,
the minister of defense, the
chief of staff
and some other senior generals
have been replaced.
And I would have to say, many
people here
believe it's well past time that
that kind
of change in leadership
happened.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: More broadly,
the top U.S.
commander there, General John
Nicholson, said
that the security situation in
Afghanistan
is at a stalemate.
And I wonder, do you agree with
that assessment?
DAVID SEDNEY: Yes, I do.
You have a situation where the
Afghan security
forces are able to prevail in
direct engagements
with the Taliban, but because of
continuing
support from Pakistan, because
of the Taliban's
ability to strike anywhere
anytime, and because
of weakness in enablers,
particularly air
and intelligence, the Afghans
forces haven't
been able to gain an advantage
on the battleground.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We mentioned
also at the
returning that the Russians have
been supporting
the Taliban increasingly.
Can you help us understand, why
do the Russians
want to support them?
DAVID SEDNEY: The Russians see
Afghanistan
as an area, I believe, where
they can try
and take advantage of the United
States, try
and drive a wedge between us and
some of our
allies, and also an area where
they have the
ability to strengthen their
long-term strategic
position.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Lastly,
General Nicholson
also said, in order to break
this stalemate,
billions of dollars and
thousands more U.S.
troops might be needed.
Do you think that will do it?
If that is granted, if the money
comes, if
the troops come, will that fix
this?
DAVID SEDNEY: I think that those
are important
components, but there are two
other equally
or I would actually say more
important components.
The first is improved Afghan
leadership, both
at the ministry level and at the
corps level
in the military.
There really needs to be a
replacement of
many of older generals that
should have been
retired many years ago, and
younger leaders
need to be moved up.
But finally and most importantly
is the role
of Pakistan.
Pakistan's support for the
Taliban is what
makes them as capable as they
are, the ability
to have arms, armed men,
explosives sent across
the border, with no restrictions
at all from
Pakistan, that's what's enabled
the Taliban
to continue to fight the way
they have.
And until that safe haven in
Pakistan is addressed
one way or another, this
conflict is going
to continue.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
David Sedney,
acting president of the American
University
of Afghanistan, thank you very
much.
DAVID SEDNEY: Thank you,
William.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we turn back
to the political
fight brewing over government
funding, health
care and tax reform, as
President Trump nears
his 100th day in office.
For all that, it's time for
Politics Monday
with Amy Walter of The Cook
Political Report
and Tamara Keith of NPR, who
joins us tonight
from Chicago.
And welcome to you both.
So, 100 days, we're coming up on
it this Saturday.
Amy, during the campaign, the
president said
he was going to get a lot done
during those
first 100 days.
But then, just a few days ago,
he was saying
it's a ridiculous standard.
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Right,
an arbitrary standard.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But what is it?
How important is it?
How much attention should we
give it?
AMY WALTER: Yes, it's a very
good question.
You know, normally, president,
especially
-- first-term presidents start
off in their
first few months in office with
this reservoir
of goodwill.
Think of it like having a bank
account that
you're flush with cash.
And so you spend that money down
and that
goodwill down over the course of
your presidency
to get things done.
President Trump is starting in a
very different
place.
He has got to find a way to fill
that reservoir
because, right now, it's empty.
He's sitting at anywhere between
40 percent
and 42 percent approval, the
lowest for any
president at this point in his
tenure, for
a first-term president in his
tenure.
And so the question which, Judy,
I feel like
we have been asking since the
day he that
won this election is how does he
fill that
reservoir because, right now, he
hasn't done
a particularly good job of it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Tam, you not
only cover
Washington.
You cover the American people.
You hit the road.
How do you sense the importance
of this measurement,
this 100 days?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: It is
an arbitrary measure.
It is based on, you know, the
Roosevelt administration
had -- FDR's administration had
incredible
accomplishments.
But that was done with Congress,
and a lot
of it didn't originate from the
White House.
One historian I talked to last
week said that
even Roosevelt wouldn't have
meet the standard.
And yet every president is held
to this standard.
The problem with President Trump
is that he
made big all of these very
promises, and specifically
labeled it as his 100-days plan
that he was
campaigning on.
That said, as the talk of 100
days heated
up last week, I was chatting
with a Trump
voter who said to me, you know,
in my machine
shop, when we get somebody new,
we don't expect
them to be able to do everything
on the first
day.
And I think that there are a lot
of Trump
voters out there I have heard
from who say,
you know, give him a chance.
There's a very steep learning
curve when it
comes to running the United
States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Amy, it is
like everything
else.
So much of this is in the eye of
the beholder.
AMY WALTER: Well, that's exactly
right.
And I think the learning curve
thing is very
important.
Remember, this is the first
president we have
elected in our time who has
never held political
office and who's never had
military office.
Right?
This is a big learning curve.
And the people around him has a
learning curve
and Congress has a learning
curve.
Most of the Republicans in
Congress have never
worked with a Republican
president before.
So, structurally, though, that's
first this
president I think has time to
sort of right
the ship.
The first 100 days to me not as
important
as the next 100 or 200 or 400 as
we get closer
to the midterm elections.
Structurally, his advantage is
that this as
a president who has all levers
of power in
Washington.
They have the House.
They have the Senate.
So, while I agree that there is
a learning
curve and people are going to
cut them some
slack, saying you're few, get
some notches,
take some time before you can
put some notches
on your belt, at some point, if
you have all
the levers of power and you're
still not able
to get anything done, I think
that's going
to be a problem.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Part of what you
have been
both have referring to, Tam, is
he's raised
expectations himself.
And I have been hearing analysts
in the last
few days, and reading them,
saying he needs
to lower expectations.
But we do have a sense, don't
we, coming out
of these first three months of
what kind of
presidency this is going to be?
Don't we?
Haven't we learned something
from this?
TAMARA KEITH: We have certainly
learned how
President Trump operates.
He operates on sort of an ad hoc
basis, that
the White House, that Oval
Office is very
open, that he brings people in,
that he is
very available, that he does --
for all of
his talk of the lying media and
the fake news,
he does a huge number of
interviews, where
he's more available than past
presidents.
But what we don't know is if
that is how he
will govern for the rest of his
term.
He talks about being a very
flexible person.
And we with simply don't know if
that flexibility
means that he will change again.
You know, like President Clinton
started off
with a very rough first 100
days.
People widely described it as
disastrous.
Ultimately, he changed chiefs of
staff and
changed the way he ran his White
House, and
then, having lost the Congress,
cooperated
with Republicans in Congress and
got some
things done.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Amy,
presidents do learn
from their mistakes, don't they?
AMY WALTER: That's the goal.
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: Right.
And to Tamara's point about
President Clinton,
he did -- that was a rough 1993.
And in 1994, it's not just that
he had a bad
midterm election.
His party lost control of the
House, for the
first time in 40 years.
And so, to me, what I'm looking
at in terms
of the number is not just where
he is, President
Trump is in comparison to where
other presidents
were in their first 100 days.
But when I look at the number
where he is
now, at 40 or 42 percent, and
look at where
other presidents were close to
their midterm
elections who were at 40 percent
or 42 percent,
they lost lots of seats in
Congress.
In many cases, they low control
of Congress.
So it is imperative for him to
start getting
some wins.
Structurally, he has the ability
to do it,
but now he has got to start
delivering.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And he has got to
make up some
ground.
AMY WALTER: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tam, we did note
that you're
in Chicago.
President Obama was there today
to make his
first sort of public
presentation since leaving
office.
So, what did you see?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, what I saw
is a post-president
who is trying his best to not
talk about his
successor.
He was on stage with six young
people who
are active in -- sort of
civically active.
And he said that he believes
that a big part
of his post-presidency will be
to try to figure
out how to get the next
generation involved
in public life and giving back
and in politics.
He talked about concerns about
people simply
not voting or becoming cynical.
But what he didn't talk about
was President
Trump.
So, for those people who were
hoping that
President Obama would come back
into public
life and join the resistance,
that doesn't
appear to be how he plans to
spend his post-presidency.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sounds like he is
holding off.
AMY WALTER: Yes.
Well, there's a great irony, of
course, in
President Obama as a face of the
resistance.
We talked throughout the Obama
era about the
so-called Obama coalition
voters.
But guess what?
Those voters, who included a lot
of young
people, only turned out for one
Democrat,
and that was Barack Obama.
They didn't turn out in midterm
elections.
They didn't turn in the way that
Democrats
had hoped for Hillary Clinton.
Will they then turn out for
another Democrat
is the big question.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A lot of
Democrats are holding
their breath, crossing their
fingers, or whatever
people do when they're hoping.
Amy Walter, Tamara Keith, thank
you both.
See you next Monday.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight,
a conversation
with Sheryl Sandberg about
coping with grief
and resilience in the face of
adversity.
That's the subject of a new book
in which
she writes candidly about a
personal tragedy,
the loss of her husband, Dave
Goldberg.
I visited her at Facebook's
headquarters in
Menlo Park, California.
Our interview took place nearly
two years
after Sandberg and her husband
went on vacation
in Mexico with friends.
Sandberg woke up from a poolside
nap, saw
that Dave wasn't there, and soon
went looking
for him.
She found him lying on the floor
of the hotel
gym next to the treadmill.
As they later learned, he had
suffered a cardiac
arrhythmia.
He was just 47 years old.
As the chief operating officer
of Facebook,
and one of the best known female
executives
in the business world, Sandberg
had all the
resources and support one could
imagine.
But none of that would lessen
the grief that
engulfed her and their two young
children.
SHERYL SANDBERG, COO, Facebook:
In those early
days and weeks, it feels like
you're not going
to get through a minute, let
alone a day.
My biggest fear was that my kids
would never
be happy again, that their
happiness would
have been wiped away in that
same instant
we lost Dave.
There are people who had been
through loss
and been through real adversity
who told me
it gets better.
And I didn't believe them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ten days later,
when she returned
to work, it was hard to focus on
running a
social media giant, with 17,000
employees
and more than a billion daily
users.
Suddenly, one of the most
successful women
in business was struggling to
hold it together
at the office.
SHERYL SANDBERG: When Dave first
died, I felt
like I was in a void, like I
couldn't breathe,
or catch my breath.
I thought at first -- I just
thought, I'm
never going to get through this.
I can't contribute.
I can't even get through a
meeting without
crying.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A month after his
death, she
posted a tribute to Dave on
Facebook.
She wrote about mistakes she had
made in the
past when friends lost loved
ones.
She included advice from a close
friend about
how to handle a father-son
event.
Option A, Dave, wasn't
available.
Instead, the friend said it was
time to grab
onto option B. But he used
stronger language
than that.
It became Sandberg's mantra, and
it's the
name of her new book.
SHERYL SANDBERG: There are
things you can
do, steps you can take to help
yourself and
your kids recover.
And I learned that resilience,
it's not something
we have one set amount of.
It's a muscle, and we build it.
And if this helps anyone, even
just a little
bit, themselves or a friend,
then I think
I will have found some meaning
in this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is the book also
about helping
you get through it?
SHERYL SANDBERG: The book is
trying to help
other people hear what I
couldn't hear at
the beginning.
It does get better.
I will always miss Dave.
I miss Dave every day.
But that feeling of not being
able to breathe
has passed.
I can breathe now.
And, sometimes, I think of him
and cry, but,
sometimes, I think of him and
smile.
And my children can think of
their father
and smile.
And I want other people going
through this
to know it's possible.
JUDY WOODRUFF: "Option B" is not
just about
Sandberg's personal journey and
loss.
It offers ideas and advice for
people who've
experienced their own trauma.
Co-written with psychologist and
bestselling
author Adam Grant, the book puts
a big emphasis
on what Sandberg calls the
elephant in the
room.
SHERYL SANDBERG: It's not just
the loss, or
the cancer, or losing a job, or
someone in
your family going to jail.
It's the silence that surrounds
that.
And so, when I lost Dave, I had
this overwhelming
grief, but also just this
isolation I had
never felt in my life.
I had always felt really
connected to my friends,
neighbors and family, people I
work with.
But when I came back to work,
people barely
spoke to me.
They looked at me like I was a
deer in the
headlights.
And I know they meant well.
They were afraid to say the
wrong thing, so
they said nothing at all.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What's just one
of the ways
that people should be able to
take away from
your experience about how to
reach out to
someone who's going through
something like
this, something traumatic like
this, and for
those who are going through it
themselves,
who aren't accustomed maybe to
reaching out,
or who aren't comfortable, for
whatever reason?
SHERYL SANDBERG: If you're
trying to help
someone who's facing adversity,
the first
and most important thing is to
acknowledge
the pain.
Before, if I had a colleague or
a friend who
had lost someone, who was going
through cancer
treatment, I thought bringing it
up to them
was reminding them.
So, I was silent.
Losing Dave taught me how absurd
that was.
You can't remind me I lost my
husband.
I know that every minute of
every day.
And so, when people said
nothing, particularly
in the beginning, how are you
felt like, how
are -- how am I?
I just lost my husband.
And they were asking.
I took that as the standard
American I'm supposed
to -- greeting.
I'm supposed to say fine and
move on.
But they meant it.
And when I learned to say, I'm
not great,
or I'm really sad today, or
thanks for asking,
I don't want to talk about it
right now, I
was letting them acknowledge.
And so it's really on both sides
to acknowledge.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sandberg also
writes about
how important it is not to blame
yourself.
SHERYL SANDBERG: When Dave first
died, I thought
it was my fault.
The initial report said he'd
died of head
trauma from falling off an
exercise machine.
My brother's a neurosurgeon, and
he told me
that wasn't true.
When we got the autopsy, we
realized he had
died of a cardiac arrhythmia.
But I still blamed myself, and I
blamed myself
for a long time.
But when Adam told me that,
because I was
blaming myself, I was going to
keep my kids
from recovering, because I was
going to keep
myself from recovering, that
really helped.
We have to show ourselves
compassion, the
same compassion we would show a
friend.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sandberg said
that, ultimately,
family, friends and co-workers,
including
her boss, Mark Zuckerberg, made
a huge difference.
Not everybody may go back to a
supportive
environment, making it even
harder for them.
So, what do you say to people
who are thinking,
how am I going to face
co-workers, what if
my employer doesn't give me the
time or the
space or the understanding that
I need?
SHERYL SANDBERG: Yes, we have so
much to do
to make it easier for people at
work.
I'm really lucky.
Facebook has great policies.
We offer a lot of bereavement
leave, a lot
of leave of all kinds.
And we have done even more since
Dave died
for people.
But we need our workplaces and
then our public
policy to give people the paid,
paid time
off they need, because, for a
lot of people,
if the time is unpaid, they
can't take it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sandberg has
become increasingly
outspoken about the workplace,
family life
and women's equality.
Her 2012 book, "Lean In," served
as a call
to many women to become more
assertive.
But, to some, Sandberg's tone
smacked of wealthy
white privilege.
She was criticized in some
quarters for failing
to appreciate what single
parents and non-traditional
families go through.
Now she's expanded the message
to stress the
role of government and society
in the lives
of women.
SHERYL SANDBERG: We are the only
developed
country in the world, the only
one, without
paid maternity leave.
And we need that, and paid
paternity leave,
so men and women are equal.
We're one of the only developed
countries
without paid family leave.
I think a lot about going
through everything
I went through, and also
worrying about paying
a basic health care bill, about
single mothers
who wake up every day in this
country and
worry about whether they can
take care of
a sick child, or lose their job
that they
need, about the minimum wage we
have.
Two-thirds of minimum wage
workers are women.
Minimum wage hasn't been raised
at the federal
level in forever.
That's unacceptable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Unexpectedly, joy
is also an
essential message in the book.
It's something Sandberg feared
she would never
feel again.
SHERYL SANDBERG: I thought it
would always
feel that way.
And the sadness is still here,
but it doesn't
feel like I'm trapped in a void
anymore.
And I have joy, and I have
laughter, and I
have moments with my kids where
we remember
their daddy with real joy, and
we look at
pictures and videos.
And I want anyone going through
hardship to
know that it does get better.
We all have things we can
appreciate.
We all have moments that we can
notice the
joy.
We all can find gratitude for
being alive.
And that doesn't mean that every
story has
a happy ending, because it
doesn't.
But there are things we can do
to build resilience
in ourselves and each other that
make us stronger.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sheryl Sandberg
has not only
written this book, "Option B,"
about her experience.
She's encouraging people going
through tragedy
to form support groups to be
there for each
other.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.